TITLE: John Armato
EMAIL: AsmArmato@njleg.org
SUBJECT_LINE: Passing Bill S386

BODY:
To my representatives:

My name is ${firstName} ${lastName}. I live in ${city}, ${region}, and I write regarding S21/A21: New Jersey Cannabis Regulatory, Enforcement Assistance, and Marketplace Modernization Act. I am in support of legalizing marijuana and the implications for racial and class justice which can come as a result, but I implore you-- as my representatives-- to make changes to this bill regarding how it is currently written. In the early lines of the bill itself, it reads “This act is designed to eliminate the problems caused by the unregulated manufacture, distribution, and use of illegal marijuana within New Jersey,” yet many of the problems caused by marijuana being made illegal for decades are not addressed or are addressed inadequately throughout this bill.

Firstly, it is abhorrent for the state to use tax revenue from marijuana sales to fund local police departments. Communities affected by the War on Drugs are predominantly Black and brown, poor, urban areas which have consistently, and still are, overpoliced-- some of which are referred to as impact zones in this bill. Instead of continuing to fund local police departments which have historically been harmful towards these communities, funds should be redirected towards these communities and impact zones for rehabilitation, mental health services, employment opportunities, housing justice, welfare programs, and/or education. Revenue needs to be redirected back into communities and citizens, not law enforcement which, in FY 2020, received $448.8 million for the Division of State Police (DSP) from the state. A majority of local municipalities have increased their funding since the year prior, just as the DSP had. The police do not need this revenue, the people do.

Secondly, the business licenses; I am in support of 15 percent of licenses being reserved for Black, Indigenous, and people of color (BIPOC) and another 15 percent being reserved for women or veterans. Although, it seems as though there are no clear or tangible steps to be taken to achieve these numbers other than outreach. Some of the aforementioned tax revenue can be put towards state-funded training for BIPOC, women, and veterans-- especially those who have been disproportionately harmed by the War on Drugs and hyper-policing. They can learn key business skills to empower themselves with the tools to start their own business and become key players in marijuana legalization and dispensaries. Perhaps funding can be provided to those who may need extra money for fees and expenses to start selling marijuana, funding which can be taken from tax revenue as well.

Continually, the requirement of a U.S. passport or state ID for entering a marijuana establishment may bar residents of U.S. territories or Native Peoples from purchasing marijuana in the state. Regulations like those in Colorado and Oregon would be a better option for NJ than aforementioned IDs or “... any other identification card issued by a state or the United States that bears a picture of the person, the name of the person, the person’s date of birth, and a physical description of the person” as S21/A21 states. Colorado and Oregon are great examples, as they accept valid IDs from U.S. territories, federally recognized tribes, and military ID cards.

Furthermore, the scored, point-based system which requires people to own property and have received local approval at the time of the license ​application​ is inherently classist and in favor of bigger, wealthier businesses. These requirements are large and incredibly difficult to obtain for many people, especially for those with a new and/or small business.
Thank you for reading, and I implore you to make these changes to S21/A21 in order to seek racial justice, class justice, and restorative justice to communities which have been disproportionately affected and harmed by the War on Drugs. As New Jersey has the highest rates of racial disparity in prisons such that Black residents are imprisoned at rates 12 times higher that of white residents-- the highest racial disparity in the country-- it is especially important to seek equity with this bill. While this bill cannot solve all of these issues, it can make massive improvements, and I trust that you, as legislators, choose to do so. Thank you again for your consideration.

Sincerely,
${firstName} ${lastName} ${city}, ${region}

